---
title: 196. Delete Duplicate Emails
created: 2023-09-03 14:51
updated: 2023-12-07T21:29
authors:
  - Edmund Leibert III
tags:
  - 🔴-academic/📚-educational-resource/name/leetcode
  - 🔴-academic/📚-educational-resource/format/internet
  - 🔴-academic/📚-educational-resource/name/leetcode/🔖/problems/196-delete-duplicate-emails
  - 🔴-academic/📚-educational-resource/name/leetcode/🏷️/problems/tag/topic/database
  - study-note
cards-deck: 🔴 Academic::📚 Educational ResourceeetCode::Problems::196. Delete Duplicate Emails
---

#  🌐 LeetCode

---

## 🕸️ All Mention(s): 

---

## 🔙 Previous Note(s):

---

##  Problems

### 196. Delete Duplicate Emails

> [!info]+ Where can the problem be found?
> The problem can be found here: [196. Delete Duplicate Emails](https://leetcode.com/problems/delete-duplicate-emails/description/)

#### Solution (SQL Server)

﹇<br>
What is the _optimal_ solution to this problem? If there are multiple, list them out and compare.

#card 

**Approach #1**: Use a `CROSS JOIN` ❌

1. Do a `CROSS JOIN` of the `person` table with itself.
2. Only get rows `WHERE` the righthand table `id` is less than the lefthand table `AND` that both `email` values from the lefthand and righthand table are equal

```sql
/* Write your T-SQL query statement below */
DELETE p1
FROM person p1
CROSS JOIN person p2
WHERE p2.id < p1.id AND p1.email = p2.email
```

> [!warning]+ Not an optimal solution…
> The query you provided uses a `CROSS JOIN` to find and delete duplicate emails while keeping the record with the lowest `id`. While this works, it can be inefficient because a `CROSS JOIN` produces a **Cartesian product** of the rows, which can be expensive in terms of performance.
> 
> A more optimal solution might involve using **window functions**, **common table expressions** (CTEs), or **subqueries**.

**Approach #2**: Use a CTE with a window function ✅ 🌟

1. From `person p1`, partition all the rows by email (in ascending order by the `p1.id`) and append a column where each row of an email is giving a value which signifies its occurrence number. Use the window function `ROW_NUMBER()` to achieve this.
2. Then, using your newly created CTE, get all the rows `WHERE` the `rn` is greater than $1$. (i.e., the row is a duplicate).
3. Call `DELETE` on those rows. 

```sql
/* Write your T-SQL query statement below */
WITH duplicate_emails AS (
  SELECT
    p1.id,
    p1.email,
    ROW_NUMBER() OVER (PARTITION BY p1.email ORDER BY p1.id ASC) AS rn 
  FROM person p1
)
DELETE 
FROM duplicate_emails
WHERE duplicate_emails.rn > 1
```

**Approach #3**: Use a subquery ❔

```sql
DELETE FROM person
WHERE id NOT IN (
  SELECT MIN(id)
  FROM person
  GROUP BY email
);
```

1. In the subquery method, the subquery selects the minimum `id` for each email. 
2. Then, the `DELETE` statement removes rows from `person` where the `id` is not in this list of minimum `id`s, thereby removing duplicates and keeping only the records with the lowest `id`.

⌂
<br>﹈<br>^1693782194122


##### Attempt #1 :: 📆 2023-09-03 14:51 :: ❌

###### Performance

- ⏲**Time**: `00:14:54`
- 🧔🏽‍♂️ **Author(s)**: 
	- `Edmund Leibert III`

###### Notes

﹇<br>
What is the default implicited join in **SQL Server**? For instance, when specifying _two_ tables in a `FROM` clause like so…

```sql
/* Write your T-SQL query statement below */
DELETE p1
FROM person p1, person p2
WHERE p2.id < p1.id AND p1.email = p2.email
```

what type of join (if any) is happening?

#card #🔴-academic/📚-educational-resource/discipline/computer-science/dbms/sql-server 

[When you use multiple tables in the `FROM` clause of a `SELECT` statement in MySQL, separated by commas, SQL Server performs a **full join**](https://www.informit.com/articles/article.aspx?p=30875&seqNum=5)[1](https://www.informit.com/articles/article.aspx?p=30875&seqNum=5). [This means that each row in the first table is combined with each row in the second table](https://www.informit.com/articles/article.aspx?p=30875&seqNum=5)[1](https://www.informit.com/articles/article.aspx?p=30875&seqNum=5). For example, if you have two tables `t1` and `t2`, and you join them as follows:

```sql
SELECT t1.*, t2.* 
FROM t1, t2;
```

[Each row in `t1` is combined with each row in `t2`](about:blank#)[1](https://www.informit.com/articles/article.aspx?p=30875&seqNum=5). This is also known as a **Cartesian product** or **cross join**. [It returns the combination of every row from the first table with every row from the second table](https://www.informit.com/articles/article.aspx?p=30875&seqNum=5)[1](https://www.informit.com/articles/article.aspx?p=30875&seqNum=5).

In your example, if you use the following statement:

```sql
SELECT * 
FROM person p1, person p2;
```

It will return the Cartesian product of the `person` table with itself. [That is, each row in the `person` table will be combined with each row in the `person` table (including itself)](about:blank#)[1](https://www.informit.com/articles/article.aspx?p=30875&seqNum=5).

⌂
<br>﹈<br>^1693782194130


﹇<br>
In SQL, is `FROM` considered a **clause**?

#card #🔴-academic/📚-educational-resource/discipline/computer-science/dbms/sql-server 

Yes, it is.

⌂
<br>﹈<br>^1693782194136



﹇<br>
In SQL, is it considered optimal to use a `CROSS JOIN`?

#card #🔴-academic/📚-educational-resource/discipline/computer-science/dbms/sql-server 

[In general, a Cartesian product (i.e. a `CROSS JOIN`) in SQL is not considered optimal](about:blank#)[1](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/11940432/how-optimizing-cartesian-product-query-in-sql)[2](https://codingsight.com/the-cartesian-product-in-sql/). [A Cartesian product generates a large number of rows, and the result is rarely useful](https://codingsight.com/the-cartesian-product-in-sql/)[2](https://codingsight.com/the-cartesian-product-in-sql/). [It is usually better to avoid using a Cartesian product and instead use proper join techniques (such as `LEFT JOIN`, `RIGHT JOIN`, or `INNER JOIN`) to narrow down the record set](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/11940432/how-optimizing-cartesian-product-query-in-sql)[1](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/11940432/how-optimizing-cartesian-product-query-in-sql). [This can help improve the performance of your query by reducing the number of rows that need to be processed](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/11940432/how-optimizing-cartesian-product-query-in-sql)[1](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/11940432/how-optimizing-cartesian-product-query-in-sql).

However, there are some situations where a Cartesian product can be useful. [For example, if you require all combinations of every row from one table with every row from another table, then a Cartesian product can be an appropriate solution](https://www.codingninjas.com/studio/library/cartesian-product-sql)[3](https://www.codingninjas.com/studio/library/cartesian-product-sql). [In such cases, you can use the `CROSS JOIN` operator to implement a Cartesian product in SQL](about:blank#)[2](https://codingsight.com/the-cartesian-product-in-sql/).

It’s important to note that sometimes, Cartesian products can occur due to an error in the query text. [So, it’s always a good idea to double-check your query to make sure that you are using the appropriate join conditions](about:blank#)[2](https://codingsight.com/the-cartesian-product-in-sql/).

⌂
<br>﹈<br>^1693782194142


﹇<br>
In brief, what is a `CROSS JOIN` in SQL?

#card #🔴-academic/📚-educational-resource/discipline/computer-science/dbms/sql-server 

A `CROSS JOIN` in SQL is a type of join that returns the Cartesian product of two tables. This means that it returns all possible combinations of rows from the two tables. For example, if you have two tables `t1` and `t2`, and you join them using a `CROSS JOIN` as follows:

```sql
SELECT * 
FROM t1 
CROSS JOIN t2;
```

Each row in `t1` is combined with each row in `t2`. This can result in a large number of rows, and the result is rarely useful. It is usually better to avoid using a `CROSS JOIN` and instead use proper join techniques (such as `LEFT JOIN`, `RIGHT JOIN`, or `INNER JOIN`) to narrow down the record set.

⌂
<br>﹈<br>^1693782194147


﹇<br>
What type of join is performed in the following SQL Server query?

```sql
DELETE p1 
FROM person p1, person p2
WHERE p2.id < p1.id AND p1.email = p2.email
```

#card #🔴-academic/📚-educational-resource/discipline/computer-science/dbms/sql-server 

Implicit CROSS JOIN between the `person` table aliased as `p1` and the `person` table aliased as `p2`. The query uses ANSI-89 syntax for joins.

⌂
<br>﹈<br>^1693782194152


﹇<br>
No, a `CROSS JOIN` and a `FULL JOIN` are not the same.

- A **CROSS JOIN** returns the Cartesian product of two tables, meaning it will return all possible combinations of rows from the joined tables. It doesn't require a condition for joining.
- A **FULL JOIN** (or `FULL (OUTER) JOIN`) returns all the records when there is a match in either the left or right table records. It will also return `NULL` for every column from the table that doesn’t have a match.

⌂
<br>﹈<br>

﹇<br>
What type of join returns records that have matching values in both tables?

#card

`INNER JOIN`

⌂
<br>﹈<br>^1693782194158


﹇<br>
What type of join returns all records from the left table and the matching records from the right table, filling with `NULL`s where there is no match?

#card #🔴-academic/📚-educational-resource/discipline/computer-science/dbms/sql-server 

`LEFT (OUTER) JOIN`

⌂
<br>﹈<br>^1693782194165


﹇<br>
What type of join returns all records from the right table and the matching records from the left table, filling with `NULL`s where there is no match?

#card #🔴-academic/📚-educational-resource/discipline/computer-science/dbms/sql-server 

`RIGHT (OUTER) JOIN`

⌂
<br>﹈<br>^1693782194171


﹇<br>
What type of join returns all records when there is a match in one of the tables and fills with `NULL`s where there is no match?

#card #🔴-academic/📚-educational-resource/discipline/computer-science/dbms/sql-server 

`FULL (OUTER) JOIN`

⌂
<br>﹈<br>^1693782194177


﹇<br>
What type of join returns the **Cartesian product** of two tables, creating all possible combinations of rows from the joined tables?

#card #🔴-academic/📚-educational-resource/discipline/computer-science/dbms/sql-server 

`CROSS JOIN`

⌂
<br>﹈<br>^1693782194184


﹇<br>
What term is used for a table joining with itself?

#card #🔴-academic/📚-educational-resource/discipline/computer-science/dbms/sql-server 

`SELF JOIN`

⌂
<br>﹈<br>^1693782194189



﹇<br>
How can you delete duplicate emails while keeping the record with the lowest `id` using a CTE in SQL Server? 

#card #🔴-academic/📚-educational-resource/discipline/computer-science/dbms/sql-server 

Use a CTE with `ROW_NUMBER()` to partition by email and order by `id`. Delete rows where the row number is greater than 1.

⌂
<br>﹈<br>^1693782194195



﹇<br>
How can you delete duplicate emails while keeping the record with the lowest `id` using a subquery in SQL Server? 

#card #🔴-academic/📚-educational-resource/discipline/computer-science/dbms/sql-server 

Use a subquery to select the minimum `id` for each email using `GROUP BY`. Delete rows from the main table where the `id` is not in this list of minimum `id`s.

⌂
<br>﹈<br>^1693782194201



﹇<br>
Which is, generally, the most optimal approach for deleting duplicate rows while keeping the one with the lowest `id` in **SQL Server**…

- CTE with `ROW_NUMBER()`
- Subquery with `NOT IN`
- Using a `CROSS JOIN`?

#card #🔴-academic/📚-educational-resource/discipline/computer-science/dbms/sql-server 

The CTE approach with `ROW_NUMBER()` is generally considered to be the most efficient and flexible method for this specific task in SQL Server.

The most optimal approach for deleting duplicate rows while keeping the one with the minimum `id` often depends on various factors such as table size, indexes, and the specific SQL Server configuration. However, some general observations can be made:

1. **CTE with `ROW_NUMBER()`**: This is generally the most efficient and flexible approach for dealing with duplicates on SQL Server. Window functions like `ROW_NUMBER()` are optimized for performance, and you have more control over which rows to keep or delete.
2. **Subquery with `NOT IN`**: This method could be less efficient, especially if the table is large or not properly indexed. Using `NOT IN` with a subquery that has to perform a `GROUP BY` can be resource-intensive.
3. **CROSS JOIN**: This is usually the least efficient method for large datasets, as it creates a Cartesian product of the table with itself, leading to a significant performance hit.

In summary, the CTE approach with `ROW_NUMBER()` is commonly considered to be the most efficient and flexible approach for this specific task.

⌂
<br>﹈<br>^1693782194207


﹇<br>
Is the following code valid?

```sql
DELETE
FROM Person p1
WHERE p1.id NOT IN(
  SELECT
    MIN(p2.id) AS id,
    p2.email AS email
  FROM Person p2
  GROUP BY p2.email
)
```

#card

No!

The subquery in the `NOT IN` clause returns two columns (`id` and `email`), but `NOT IN` expects a single-column set for comparison. The query will generate a syntax error because of this.

Also, in SQL Server, you don't typically alias the table in a `DELETE` statement unless you're doing a join. The correct syntax should look like this:

```sql
DELETE 
FROM Person 
WHERE id NOT IN (
	SELECT MIN(id)
	FROM Person
	GROUP BY email
);
```

In this version, I've removed the alias `p1` from the `DELETE` clause, which should resolve the syntax error you were facing.

⌂
<br>﹈<br>^1693783419377



---

## 🔜 Next Note(s):

---



