---
tags:
  - 🔴-academic/📚-educational-resource/name/more-modern-cmake
  - 🔴-academic/📚-educational-resource/discipline/computer-science/technology/cmake
  - study-note
cards-deck: Default::Computer Science
created: 2023-10-27T17:38
updated: 2023-11-18T02:44
---

# More Modern CMake

## 1. Introduction

What is the difference between a **build system** and a **build system generator**? #card 
- CMake vs make (recall the differences!)


What are **Build Systems**? #card-reverse 
- Have ways to set up dependencies
- Ways to store the commands used to build each file or type of file



Are **build systems** traditionally language independent? #card 
Yes, which allow you to setup builds of almost anything


What are some common build systems? #card-reverse 
- make (the classic pervasive one)
- ninja (A newer one from Google designed in the age of build system generators)
- invoke (A Python one)
- rake (Ruby make, nice syntax for Ruby users)



What are the downsides of **build systems**? #card-reverse 
- Mostly hand coded: Have to know all the proper commands
- Platform/compiler dependent: Have to build the commands for each compiler
- Not aware of dependencies: If you require a library, you have to handle the paths, etc.
- Hard to extend: if you want to use an IDE instead, good luck.


What are **Build System Generators** (hereby labeled BSGs for brevity)? #card-reverse 
- Understand the concepts of your programming language build
- Usually support common compilers, languages, libraries, and output formats.
- Usually write a build system (or IDE) file and then let that do the actual build.


What is the most popular BSG? #card 
CMake


What does CMake stand for? #card-reverse 
Cross-platform Make


What are some other BSGs? #card 
- Autotools (old, inflexible)
- Bazel (by Google)
- SCons (older Python system)
- Meson (young Python system, very opinionated)


What makes CMake so much more better than other BSGs? #card-reverse 
- Has unparalleled support by IDEs, libraries, and compilers.
- Scales very well, with small projects able to pick it up easily (modern CMake, anyway), and massive projects like the CERN experiments being about to use it for thousands of modules.


Is CMake a custom language? Is Make a custom language? #card 
Yes, they are both custom languages.





