---
title: 2504. Concatenate the Name and the Profession
created: 2023-09-17 07:56
updated: 2023-09-17 08:02
authors:
  - Edmund Leibert III
tags:
  - 🔴-academics/📚-educational-resources/name/🌐-leetcode
  - 🔴-academics/📚-educational-resources/source-format/internet/website
  - 🔴-academics/📚-educational-resources/discipline/computer-science
  - 🔴-academics/📚-educational-resources/name/🌐-leetcode/🔖-bookmark/🌐-leetcode/problems/2504-concatenate-the-name-and-the-profession
  - 🔴-academics/📚-educational-resources/name/🌐-leetcode/🏷️-tag/problem/difficulty/easy
  - 🔴-academics/📚-educational-resources/name/🌐-leetcode/🏷️-tag/problem/tag/topic/database
  - study-note
cards-deck: 🔴 Academics::📚 Educational Resources::🌐 LeetCode::Problems::2504. Concatenate the Name and the Profession
---

# 🌐 Structy

---

## 🕸️ All Mention(s): 

---

## 🔙 Previous Note(s):

---

## 0. Introduction

### 2504. Concatenate the Name and the Profession

> [!info]+ Where can the problem be found?
> The problem can be found here: [2504. Concatenate the Name and the Profession](https://leetcode.com/problems/concatenate-the-name-and-the-profession/description/)

#### Solution ({{Language, Library, etc.}})
^1694962984218

﹇<br>
What is the _optimal_ solution to this problem? Provide analysis regarding what differentiates it to other approaches/solutions.

#card 

- **Solution from Attempt #1**: Use `CONCAT` and `LEFT`

	```sql
	/* Write your T-SQL query statement below */
	SELECT
	    p.person_id AS 'person_id',
	    CONCAT(p.name,'(', LEFT(p.profession, 1),')') AS 'name'
	FROM Person p
	ORDER BY person_id DESC;
	```

⌂
<br>﹈<br>^1694962984233


##### Attempt #1 :: 📆 2023-09-17 07:57 -07:00 :: ❌ :: \[Author: Edmund Leibert III\]

###### Performance

- ⏲️ **Time**: `0:04:30`
- 🧔🏽‍♂️ **Author(s)**:
	- Edmund Leibert III

###### Notes

﹇<br>
How do you get the first char of a string in SQL Server?

#card 

In SQL Server, you can use the `LEFT` function to get the first character of a string. Here’s how you can do it:

```sql
SELECT LEFT(your_column, 1) AS first_char
FROM your_table;
```

In this SQL statement, `your_column` should be replaced with the name of the column that contains the string, and `your_table` should be replaced with the name of your table. The `LEFT` function will return the first character of each string in `your_column`. The `AS` keyword is used to rename the output column as `first_char`. If you want to use a different name for the output column, you can replace `first_char` with your preferred name.

⌂
<br>﹈<br>^1694962984238



﹇<br>
How do you get the last char of a string in SQL Server?

#card 

In SQL Server, you can use the `RIGHT` and `LEN` functions to get the last character of a string. Here’s how you can do it:

```sql
SELECT RIGHT(your_column, 1) AS last_char
FROM your_table;
```

In this SQL statement, `your_column` should be replaced with the name of the column that contains the string, and `your_table` should be replaced with the name of your table. The `RIGHT` function will return the last character of each string in `your_column`. The `AS` keyword is used to rename the output column as `last_char`. If you want to use a different name for the output column, you can replace `last_char` with your preferred name.

⌂
<br>﹈<br>^1694962984243



﹇<br>
How do I get the length of a string in SQL Server?

#card 

In SQL Server, you can use the `LEN` function to get the length of a string. Here’s how you can do it:

```sql
SELECT LEN(your_column) AS string_length
FROM your_table;
```

In this SQL statement, `your_column` should be replaced with the name of the column that contains the string, and `your_table` should be replaced with the name of your table. The `LEN` function will return the length of each string in `your_column`. The `AS` keyword is used to rename the output column as `string_length`. If you want to use a different name for the output column, you can replace `string_length` with your preferred name.

⌂
<br>﹈<br>^1694962984247



﹇<br>
How do you get the first $n$ chars of a string in SQL Server?

#card 

In SQL Server, you can use the `LEFT` function to get the first `n` characters of a string. Here’s how you can do it:

```sql
SELECT LEFT(your_column, n) AS first_n_chars
FROM your_table;
```

In this SQL statement, `your_column` should be replaced with the name of the column that contains the string, and `your_table` should be replaced with the name of your table. `n` should be replaced with the number of characters you want to extract from the beginning of each string in `your_column`. The `LEFT` function will return the first `n` characters of each string in `your_column`. The `AS` keyword is used to rename the output column as `first_n_chars`. If you want to use a different name for the output column, you can replace `first_n_chars` with your preferred name.

⌂
<br>﹈<br>^1694962984251



---

## 🔜 Next Note(s):
- 

---
