---
title: 295. Find Median in Data Stream
created: 2023-10-25T13:22
updated: 2023-10-25T15:39
authors:
  - Edmund Leibert III
tags:
  - 🔴-academics/📚-educational-resources/name/leetcode/problems/295-find-median-in-data-stream
  - 🔴-academics/📚-educational-resources/name/leetcode/🏷️-tag/problem/difficulty/easy
  - 🔴-academics/📚-educational-resources/source-format/website
  - 🔴-academics/📚-educational-resources/discipline/computer-science
  - study-note
cards-deck: 🔴 Academics::📚 Educational Resources::LeetCode::Problems::295. Find Median in Data Stream
---

# 480. Find Median in Data Stream

---

> [!ABSTRACT]+ 
> The LeetCode problem can be found here: [295. Find Median in Data Stream](https://leetcode.com/problems/find-median-from-data-stream/description/)

---

> [!INFO]+
> Previous Note(s):
> 

---

## Attempt(s)

### :Si_cplusplus: C++

#### Solution(s)

#### Performance(s)

##### **Attempt #1** • 📆 2023-10-24 -07:00 • ⏲️ `23:41:17` • ❌ Failed • \[Author(s): Edmund Leibert III\]

﹇<br>
In brief, what is a heap in computer science?

#card #🔴-academics/📚-educational-resources/discipline/computer-science/programming-language/cpp  

A heap in computer science is a specialized tree-based data structure that satisfies the heap property [@HeapDataStructure] It is a complete binary tree [@HeapDataStructure] and can be of two types [@HeapDataStructure]:

- **Max-Heap**: In a Max-Heap, the key present at the root node must be greatest among the keys present at all of its children. The same property must be recursively true for all sub-trees in that Binary Tree [@HeapDataStructure].
- **Min-Heap**: In a Min-Heap, the key present at the root node must be minimum among the keys present at all of its children. The same property must be recursively true for all sub-trees in that Binary Tree [@HeapDataStructure].

The common operations involving heaps are [@HeapDataStructure2023] [@HeapDataStructure]:
- **Heapify**: a process of creating a heap from an array.
- **Insertion**: process to insert an element in existing heap with time complexity O(log N).
- **Deletion**: deleting the top element of the heap or the highest priority element, and then organizing the heap and returning the element with time complexity O(log N).
- **Peek**: to check or find the first (or can say the top) element of the heap.

Heaps are often used to implement priority queues, where the highest (or lowest) priority element is always stored at the root [@HeapDataStructure2023]. They are also crucial in several efficient graph algorithms such as Dijkstra's algorithm [@HeapDataStructure2023].

⌂
<br>﹈<br>


---

> [!INFO]+
> Next Note(s):
> 

---
