---
title: Misc. Notes
created: 2023-10-31T16:39
updated: 2023-12-11T23:34
authors:
  - Edmund Leibert III
tags:
  - 🔴-academic/📚-educational-resource/name/🗒️-esbuild/🔖/misc-notes
  - 🔴-academic/📚-educational-resource/format/miscellaneous
  - 🔴-academic/📚-educational-resource/discipline/computer-science/technology/esbuild
  - study-note
cards-deck: 🔴 Academic::📚 Educational Resource::🗒️ esbuild::Misc. Notes
---

# Misc. Notes

---

> [!ABSTRACT]+ 
> Miscellaneous scratch notes pertaining to [esbuild](https://esbuild.github.io/). [@EsbuildExtremelyFast]
> 
> These notes are primarily structured in a Q&A format, making it easy to follow and learn. Corresponding Anki flashcards are available, enabling efficient revision and reinforcement of the concepts.

---

> [!INFO]+ 
> **Previous Note(s)**:
> 

---

﹇<br>
Are web bundlers classified as frameworks or libraries?

#card 

Neither, they classified as tools or technologies.

⌂
<br>﹈<br>^1702363470813

﹇<br>
In essence, what does a web bundler do?

#card 

Essentially, a web bundler is used to bundle multiple JavaScript files and other assets (e.g., CSS files, images, etc.) in order to reduce the number of network requests and improve performance.

⌂
<br>﹈<br>^1702363470818

﹇<br>
Other than **esbuild**, what are some _other_ popular web bundlers? 

#card 

- Vite
- Webpack
- Parcel
- ESBuild
- SWC
- Rollup

⌂
<br>﹈<br>^1702363470821

﹇<br>
In the code below, when does the PowerShell script `install-plugin.ps1` run?

```js
// esbuild.config.mjs

import esbuild from "esbuild";
import process from "process";
import builtins from "builtin-modules";
import { execSync } from "child_process"

const banner =
	`/*
THIS IS A GENERATED/BUNDLED FILE BY ESBUILD
if you want to view the source, please visit the github repository of this plugin
*/
`;

const buildType = process.env.npm_config_buildType || 'debug';
const outputDir = buildType === 'release' ? 'build/release' : 'build/debug';

// Check to see if buildType is release, so we know that prod "True" (i.e., no need for "watching" the project)
const prod = (buildType === "release");

// Run the PowerShell script here
try {
	// execSync('sudo pwsh ./scripts/install-plugin.ps1', { stdio: 'inherit' });
} catch (err) {
	console.error('Failed to run PowerShell script:', err);
	process.exit(1);
}

const context = await esbuild.context({
	banner: {
		js: banner,
	},
	entryPoints: ["./src/main.ts"],
	bundle: true,
	external: [
		"obsidian",
		"electron",
		"@codemirror/autocomplete",
		"@codemirror/collab",
		"@codemirror/commands",
		"@codemirror/language",
		"@codemirror/lint",
		"@codemirror/search",
		"@codemirror/state",
		"@codemirror/view",
		"@lezer/common",
		"@lezer/highlight",
		"@lezer/lr",
		...builtins],
	format: "cjs",
	target: "es2018",
	logLevel: "info",
	sourcemap: prod ? false : "inline",
	treeShaking: true,
	outdir: "build",
});

if (prod) {
	await context.rebuild();
	process.exit(0);
} else {
	await context.watch();
}

// TODO 1: Find a way to make the clean argument system agnostic
// TODO 2: ...
```

#card 

The PowerShell executes *before* the `context.rebuild()` or `context.watch()` is called.

⌂
<br>﹈<br>^1702363470824

﹇<br>
Explain what the following line does…

```js
const buildType = process.env.npm_config_buildType || buildTypeDebug 
```

#card 

Focusing on the right-side of the statement…
- `process.env` is an object in Node.js that contains all environment variables.
- `npm_config_buildType` is an environment variable set at runtime.
	- For example, if you run the script using the command `npm run my-script --buildType=release`, **npm** automatically adds that to the `process.env` with the prefix `npm_config_`, hence `process.env.npm_config_buildType` will equal `release`.
- The `||` symbol means “logical OR.” In this case, it is used to provide a default value (‘`debug`’) if `process.env.npm_config_buildType` is not set.

⌂
<br>﹈<br>^1702363470828

﹇<br>
What is an object in Node.js that contains all environment variables?

#card-reverse 

`process.env`

⌂
<br>﹈<br>^1702363470831

﹇<br>
What prefix does **npm** automatically add to all user environment variables? 

#card 

**npm** add the prefix `npm_config_` automatically to all user environment variables.

For example,  if you run the script using the command `npm run my-script --buildType=release`, **npm** automatically adds that to the `process.env` with the prefix `npm_config_`, hence `process.env.npm_config_buildType` will equal `release`.

⌂
<br>﹈<br>^1702363470834

﹇<br>
What does `stdio` mean in the context of the following statement?

```js
execSync('sudo pwsh ./scripts/install-plugin.ps1', { stdio: 'inherit' });
```

#card 

The `stdio` option, when used with `execSync`, is for controlling the I/O streams of child processes. `stdio` can be used to specify what should be done with `stdin`, `stdout`, and `stderr` of the child processes.
- `stdio: pipe` Pipes the child process’s `stdin`, `stdout`, and `stderr` to the parent.
- `stdio: ignore` No stream will be piped/ignored for all child processes.
- `stdio: inherit` Child and parent process will share `stdin`, `stdout`, and `stderr`.

⌂
<br>﹈<br>^1702363470838

In the context of `execSync`, specifically the `stdio` option, the {1:inherit} option can be useful when you {2:want the child process to interact with the same console/terminal as the parent process, such as reading input from the user or logging directly to the console}.
^1702363470841

﹇<br>
In the context of `execSync`, specifically the `stdio` option, what value should I use so that the the `stderr` and `stdout` form the child process are returned to the parent?

#card 

`pipe`

`stdio: pipe` Pipes the child process’s `stdin`, `stdout`, and `stderr` to the parent.

⌂
<br>﹈<br>^1702363470844

﹇<br>
In the context of `execSync`, specifically the `stdio` option, when the value is `pipe` can the child process directly read the parent’s `stdin`?

#card 

No.

`stdio: pipe` Pipes the child process’s `stdin`, `stdout`, and `stderr` to the parent.

⌂
<br>﹈<br>^1702363470848

﹇<br>
In the context of `execSync`, specifically the `stdio` option, when the value is `inherit` can the child you write something to `stdin` in the parent process and the child process will be able to read it?

#card 

Yes.

`stdio: inherit` Child and parent process will share `stdin`, `stdout`, and `stderr`.

⌂
<br>﹈<br>^1702363470851


﹇<br>
Does the `watch` method in ESBuild provide direct functionality to run arbitrary commands or scripts upon file changes?

#card 

No, it does it now. If you wish to do so, you must script it yourself or use an outdated library (e.g., [**chokidar**](https://github.com/paulmillr/chokidar]) ).
- If you desire to script the file watch yourself, you would need to use Node’s built-in filesystem module (i.e., **fs**)
- Note though that `fs.watch` can be tricky to get working across different OSes, because the underlying system events it hooks into can behave differently.

⌂
<br>﹈<br>^1702363470855

﹇<br>
What is the downside of trying to implement your own script so you can provide directly functionality to run arbitrarily commands of scripts upon file changes?

#card 

You would need to use use Node’s built-in filesystem module (i.e., **fs**)
- Note though that `fs.watch` can be tricky to get working across different OSes, because the underlying system events it hooks into can behave differently.

⌂
<br>﹈<br>^1702363470858

﹇<br>
What is one significant downside of ESBuild compared to other bundlers?

#card 

As of July 2023, ESBuild does *not* provide direct functionality to run arbitrary commands or scripts upon file changes

In contrast, both **Rollup** and **Vue** have plugin systems that allow you to run arbitrary code as part of their lifecycle, including after a rebuild in watch mode.

- **Rollup** Gives you the ability to hook into its build lifecycle with plugins…
  ```js
  import rollup from 'rollup'
  import { execSync } from 'child_process'
  
  rollup.rollup({
	  input: './src/main.ts'
	  plugins: [{
		  writeBundle() {
			  execSync("pwsh ./scripts/install-plugin.ps1", {stdio: "inherit"})
		  }
	  }]
  }).then(bundle => bundle.watch());
  ```
	- The `writeBundle` hook executes after Rollup has written to the disk, which allows you to run commands after each rebuild in watch mode.

- **Vite** has a similar feature with plugins…
  ```js
  import { createServer } from 'vite'
  import { execSync } from 'child_process'
  
  createServer({
	  plugins: [{
		  name: "run-script-after-build",
		  handleHotUpdate() {
			 execSync("pwsh ./scritps/install-plugin.ps1", {stdio: "inherit"});
		  },
	  }],
  }).then(server => server.listen())
  ```
	- The `handleHotUpdate` hook in Vite is executed after a module is hot updated. You can use this hook to run your PowerShell script after each rebuild in development mode.

⌂
<br>﹈<br>^1702363470862

---

## :EiZoteroItem: Bibliography

\[1\]
“esbuild - An extremely fast bundler for the web,” _esbuild_. Available: [https://esbuild.github.io/](https://esbuild.github.io/). [Accessed: Dec. 12, 2023]

---

> [!INFO]+
> **Next Note(s)**:
> 

---
